# Rest Client

CommonJS REST API client

* [Getting Started](#getting-started)
 * [On the server](#on-the-server)
 * [In the browser](#in-the-browser)
* [Documentation](#documentation)
 * [Callback Function](#callback-function)
 * [API Tokens](#api-tokens)
 * [Method Signatures](#method-signatures)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [License](#license)

## Getting Started
### On the server
Install the module with: `npm install restclient`

```javascript
var restclient = require('restclient');
restclient.uuid(); // "gets a uuid"
```

### In the browser
Build the product with `grunt dist`.

[min]: `restclient.standalone.min.js`
[max]: `restclient.standalone.js`

In your web page:

```html
<script src="dist/restclient.standalone.min.js"></script>
<script>
restclient.authenticate("email address", "password", function(statusCode, entity) {
  if (statusCode == 200) {
    // success!
  } else if (statusCode == 401) {
    // failure!
  }
});
</script>
```


## Documentation

###clientUUID
Every API call except `uuid` and `version` now requires a clientUUID as its first parameter. This argument is a traditionally a type 4 universally unique identifier as generated by `restclient.uuid` and is meant to uniquely identify the one user's instance of a front-end component that utilizes the Rest Client. So, for instance, if two users were using the browser plugin, each instance would have a different clientUUID. Additionally, if a user was using the browser plugin and the Hydra main web interface, each instance would once again have different clientUUIDs.

The purpose of these IDs to facilitate the organization and expiration of API Tokens.

```javascript
var clientUUID = restclient.uuid();

```


###API Tokens
Many restclient methods take as its first parameter an ever-changing API Token. Invoke `authenticate` to generate an API Token. Every restclient method that takes an API token will expire it and then return a new one. Follow the process like this:
```javascript
//Set up variables to call authenticate and store apiToken
var clientUUID = restclient.uuid;
var apiToken = null;
var credentials = {};

credentials.email = 'test@test.com';
credentials.password = 'abc123';

//Invoke restclient.authenticate. A promise will be returned.
restclient.authenticate(clientUUID, credentials.email, credentials.password).then(
  function (response) {
    //If the server responded with an OK status...
    if (response.status.code === 200) {

      var jsonResponse = JSON.parse(response.entity);

      //Extract the apiToken
      apiToken = jsonResponse.token;

      console.log('Authenticate Successful');
      console.log(apiToken);
    }
    else {
      console.log('Bad status code.');
    }

  },
  function (reject) {
    console.log('Promise failed.');
    console.log(reject);
  });

```

Many restclient methods return a promise. You will need to extract the apiToken from the promise success callback function.
The token is not available if the promise returns as a rejection. The token will also not change if you call a restclient
method with an apiToken as a parameter and the promise fails.

```javascript
promise.then(function(response) {
    //Api token will update.
  }, function(error) {
    //Api token will not update.
  }
);

```

###Method Signatures
These are the method signatures of the `rest-client`:


####restclient.endpointUrl()

>A placeholder string to be replaced by grunt.

####restclient.uuid()

>Generates a type 4 UUID to be used as a client identifier for other restclient calls.

####restclient.Attachment(filename, mimeType, contents)


>Generates an Attachment object of the following format:
>```
>{
>  type: 'attachment',
>  filename: filename,
>  mime_type: mimeType,
>  contents: contents
>}
>```
>
>`type` - String, "attachment"  
>`filename` - String, Ex: "filename.txt"  
>`mime_type` - String, Ex: "text/csv"  
>`contents` - String, A base64-encoded string.  
>
>Specifically used for the `dataItems` argument of `restclient.submitData` when submitting attachment files to the back-end.

####restclient.PrimitiveData(type, description, value)

>Generates an PrimitiveData object of the following format:
>```
>{
>  type: type,
>  description: description,
>  value: value
>}
>```
>
>`type` - String, Ex: "string"  
>`description` - String, Ex: "wellName"  
>`value` - String, "A-001-Alpha"  
>
>Specifically used for the `dataItems` argument of `restclient.submitData` when submitting tags related to attachment files to the back-end.

####restclient.version()

>Returns current version of Rest Client.

####restclient.authenticate(clientUUID, emailAddress, password)

>Authenticates the user's credentials against the LDAP server.
>
>`emailAddress` - Username for the user as a string.  
>`password` - Password for the user as an unencrypted string.

####restclient.adminAuthenticate(clientUUID, emailAddress, password, userEmailAddress)

>Authenticates a user using an admin's credentials.
>
>`emailAddress` - Username for the user as a string.  
>`password` - Password for the user as an unencrypted string.  
>`userEmailAddress` - Username for the authenticated user as a string.

####restclient.listAccessLevels(clientUUID, apiToken)

>Returns list of access levels for all users.

####restclient.getAccessLevel(clientUUID, apiToken, description)

>Returns access levels for a single user.
>
>`description` - Filter to return a specific user.

####restclient.listClients(clientUUID, apiToken)

>Returns list of all clients.

####restclient.getClient(clientUUID, apiToken, name)

>Returns a single client.
>
>`name` - Filter to return a specific client.

####restclient.listClientLocations(clientUUID, apiToken, name)

>Return list of locations related to a single client.
>
>`name` - Filter to return a specific client.

####restclient.listData(clientUUID, apiToken, searchParams)

>_
>
>`searchParams` - 

####restclient.getData(clientUUID, apiToken, uuid)

>_
>
>`uuid` - 

####restclient.submitData(clientUUID, apiToken, dateCreated, createdBy, dataItems)

>_
>
>`dateCreated` -  
>`createdBy` -  
>`dataItems` - 

####restclient.deleteData(clientUUID, apiToken, uuid)

>_
>
>`uuid` - 

####restclient.listAttachments(clientUUID, apiToken, searchParams)

>_
>
>`searchParams` - 

####restclient.getAttachment(clientUUID, apiToken, uuid, filename)

>_
>
>`uuid` -  
>`filename` - 

####restclient.getAttachmentURL(clientUUID, apiToken, uuid, filename)

>_
>
>`uuid` -  
>`filename` - 

####restclient.getAttachmentInfo(clientUUID, apiToken, uuid, filename)

>_
>
>`uuid` -  
>`filename` - 

####restclient.renameAttachment(clientUUID, apiToken, uuid, filename, newFilename)

>_
>
>`uuid` -  
>`filename` -  
>`newFilename` - 

####restclient.deleteAttachment(clientUUID, apiToken, uuid, filename)

>_
>
>`uuid` -  
>`filename` - 

####restclient.submitTag(clientUUID, apiToken, uuid, type, description, value)

>_
>
>`type` -  
>`description` -  
>`value` - 

####restclient.deleteTag(clientUUID, apiToken, uuid, type, description)

>_
>
>`type` -  
>`description` - 

####restclient.listUsers(clientUUID, apiToken)

>_

####restclient.getUser(clientUUID, apiToken, emailAddress)

>_
>
>`emailAddress` - 

####restclient.listUserAccess(clientUUID, apiToken, emailAddress)

>_
>
>`emailAddress` -  


For the method `restclient.submitData`, each element in the `dataItems` array must be an instance of either `restclient.Attachment` or `restclient.PrimitiveData`. UUIDs which are UUID type-4 compliant can be generated using the helper method `restclient.uuid()`.

## Contributing
In lieu of a formal styleguide, take care to maintain the existing coding style. Add unit tests for any new or changed functionality. Lint and test your code using [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/).

_Also, please don't edit files in the "dist" subdirectory as they are generated via Grunt. You'll find source code in the "lib" subdirectory!_

## License
 Copyright (c) 2014 Slixbits Inc. Licensed under the GPLv3 license.
